Data  

sp.dat
Attached Files:
File sp.dat (3.16 MB)
Speech fragment (3.3mB!)

yacht
Attached Files:
File yacht.txt (1.439 KB)
Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race Winning Times
The Sydney-Hobart yacht race starts from Sydney Harbour on Boxing day (December 26) and finishes several days later in Hobart. It is a 630 nautical mile ocean race. The data give the winning times from 1945 to 1993, as they appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald on 24 December, 1994, plus the winning times for 1994 to 1997.
Variable

Description

Yacht

Name of winning yacht

Year

Year

Days

Days unit of winning time

Hours

Hours unit of winning time

Minutes

Minutes unit of winning time

Time

Winning time in minutes (should match time in Days, Hours and Minutes)


cherry
Attached Files:
File cherry.txt (419 B)
The data give the volume (cubic feet), height (feet) and diameter (inches) (at 54 inches above ground) for a sample of 31 black cherry trees in the Allegheny National Forest, Pennsylvania. 

The data were collected in order to find an estimate for the volume of a tree (and therefore the timber yield), given its height and diameter.


Ret Loss in Flax
Attached Files:
File retloss.txt (835 B)
The data is from a dew-retting experiment in Ballarat 1942-43, in which flax was laid out under various climactic conditions and for various periods. Retting involves softening the flax stems by soaking in water, thus enabling the separation of the linen fibres from the wooden material by a process called scrutching. The flax variety used was "Liral Crown". Two samples were taken from each trial and the ret loss, as a percentage, was calculated. The other three variables are the mean daily rainfall (in points), the retting period (in days) and the mean daily temperature (in degrees Farenheit).

Mass and Physical Measurements for Male Subjects
Attached Files:
File mass.txt (975 B)
For his MS305 data project, Michael Larner measured the weight and various physical measurements for 22 male subjects aged 16 - 30. Subjects were randomly chosen volunteers, all in reasonable good health. Subjects were requested to slightly tense each muscle being measured to ensure measurement consistency. Apart from Mass, all measurements are in cm.
Variable

Description

Mass

Weight in kg

Fore

Maximum circumference of forearm

Bicep

Maximum circumference of bicep

Chest

Distance around chest directly under the armpits

Neck

Distance around neck, approximately halfway up

Waist

Distance around waist, approximately trouser line

Thigh

Circumference of thigh, measured halfway between the knee and the top of the leg

Calf

Maximum circumference of calf

Height

Height from top to toe

Shoulders

Distance around shoulders, measured around the peak of the shoulder blades


Effect of Punishment Regimes on Crime Rates
Attached Files:
File uscrime.txt (3.623 KB)
 
Criminologists are interested in the effect of punishment regimes on crime rates. This has been studied using aggregate data on 47 states of the USA for 1960. The data set contains the following columns:

 

Variable

 

Description

M

percentage of males aged 14–24 in total state population

So

indicator variable for a southern state

Ed

mean years of schooling of the population aged 25 years or over

Po1

per capita expenditure on police protection in 1960

Po2

per capita expenditure on police protection in 1959

LF

labour force participation rate of civilian urban males in the age-group 14-24

M.F

number of males per 100 females

Pop

state population in 1960 in hundred thousands

NW

percentage of nonwhites in the population

U1

unemployment rate of urban males 14–24

U2

unemployment rate of urban males 35–39

Wealth

wealth: median value of transferable assets or family income

Ineq

income inequality: percentage of families earning below half the median income

Prob

probability of imprisonment: ratio of number of commitments to number of offenses

Time

average time in months served by offenders in state prisons before their first release

Crime

crime rate: number of offenses per 100,000 population in 1960


Clock Auction
Attached Files:
File auction.txt (378 B)

bulb.txt
Attached Files:
File bulb.txt (602 B)

weather.txt
Attached Files:
File weather.txt (867 B)
